Media Library Generator
===

This script is used to generate media libraries. Currently it supports random generation of audio (Mp3) and image (jpg, png, gif and tiff) files. The script generates a random directory structure, in which it then places media files generated with random input. The media files are encoded using common encoding softwares, such as LAME and ImageMagick (dependencies are listed below). The actual multimedia contents of the generated files are random, which means the audio files are not very pleasurable to listen to, and the image files are rather abstract - the contents are however correct to the specification of the multimedia formats.

The media files contain roughly sensible metadata, which is currently not fuzzed, even though this is a planned feature. This means metadata fields intended to contain names of people are set to.. common names of people. Fields for longer text strings (such as descriptions, copyrights and licenses) contain short generated english sentences. Fuzzy input, such as uncommon or invalid characters can be added to the corpus contained in Sentences.py if desired.

The script was developed for, and is used to, test multimedia extractor software, primarily the Tracker and Tracker-IVI software. In these kinds of software, the actual multimedia contents are not very interesting, as long as the contents are sensibly formatted. The metadata, which this script generates, and the extractor softwares index, is of primary interest.

### Why would you want this script?
* Metadata can be generated with a relatively high quality. By generating media files, rather than gathering them from other sources, time and bandwidth can be saved
* The randomness used in the script is generated by the default deterministic PRNG (the Mersenne twister) of Python 2 (I use 2.7.3), which can be seeded. This means that every aspect of the generated media library is correctly replicated if the script is re-run with the same parameters at a later time or place
* The metadata fields to be included can be randomized using the `--brokenness` parameter of the respecive generators
* Very, very large media libraries can be generated with ease

### Usage
Run the script without any parameters to see the available parameters. The generator parameter is mandatory, the rest are optional. When a parameter has not been set, a random value is chosen.

The generator modules sometimes have module-specific configuration options, you can list these by issuing `--help` after selecting a generator module: `python MLG.py MP3FileGenerator --help`.

The wiki contains a sample run where GIF files are generated: https://github.com/Pelagicore/mlg/wiki/Sample-run

#### Parameters
There are two kinds of parameters for the script, the common parameters and the generator-specific parameters. The common parameters are supplied before a generator module is chosen, and the generator-specific parameters are supplied after the generator is chosen.

The common parameters are the following:
* --max-albums-per-artist <integer>: Specifies the maximal number of albums attributed to one artist. This value is not guaranteed to be reached for all artists
* --max-files-per-album <integer>: Max/min files per album, also not guaranteed to be reached for all albums
* --min-files-per-album <integer>
* --num-artists <integer>: The pool size for artists. If all albums for all artists have been filled, a previously selected artist will be re-used
* --destination-dir <string>: The path to store the finished, generated files and directories in
* --directory-depth <int>: The maximal directory depth of the directory structure generated
* --max-directories <int>: The maximal number of directories to generate. If this value is exceeded, no new files are placed. It is not harmful to keep this value quite high. Empty leaf directories are not created.
* --size-multiplier <int>: Used to affect the size of the produced media. Has different implementations in different generators, but always impacts size
* --album-naming-strategy <date, music, hash>: Naming strategies for leaf directories containing files. Has effect on the directory name
* --album-structure: Group media files together in directories, if omitted; create a new directory for each file
* --num-files <integer>: The number of files to generate in total. This has precedence over all other numbering parameters, except for --max-directories
* --random-seed <integer>: Seed to use with the PRNG. If the same seed is re-used, the same output is generated by the script, as long as the software used for media generation is the same as last time the seed was used
* --dump-settings: Write the parameters used to a file in the root directory of the generated files

Specific for MP3FileGenerator
* --<ID3 tag> <string>: Use the specified value for all ID3 tags
* --brokenness <0-100>: Percentage chance of a ID3 tag to not be included in each media file
* --filename-naming-strategy <artist-title, hash>: File naming pattern, artist-title attempts to emulate a common naming scheme for music files

Specific for ImageFileGenerator
* --brokenness <0-100>: Percentage chance of a ID3 tag to not be included in each media file
* --extension <jpg,gif,tiff,png>: Generate only files with the specified extension

All parameters except for the generator can be omitted, and values will be chosen for you.

### Dependencies
In order to generate MP3 files, an installation of LAME (http://lame.sourceforge.net/) is required. LAME 3.99.5 is known to work, later (and probably earlier) versions should also work.

The `id3v2` tool (http://id3v2.sourceforge.net/) is used to tag the MP3 files generated by LAME, since LAME is not able to set all the desired tags, you will need this also.

In order to generate album art for the MP3 files, ImageMagick (http://www.imagemagick.org), and specifically the `convert` tool is required. This tool is also used to generate the image files in the image generator.

The generated image files are tagged using `exiftool` (http://www.sno.phy.queensu.ca/~phil/exiftool/).

### Caveats
Reproducibility is a major feature of this script. Changes to the script which involve adding or subtracting usage of the PRNG will affect the generated media library. This means future versions of the script will not produce the same libraries as older versions. If you intend on reproducing a library, please ensure the exact same version of the script is used at all times.

Different versions of Python may contain different PRNGs. The same PRNG needs to be used if the results of the script are to be reproduced. The script is also dependent on the fact that the PRNG is deterministic and seedable.

Different versions of the encoding software used may produce different outputs for the same input. If you wish to reproduce the exact same multimedia contents of your files, you should ensure that the versions of the encoding software coincides.

### Contact
Send any questions to jonatan.palsson at pelagicore dot com. Pull requests on GitHub are of course welcome.
